----- Note : Always delete TODO commentaries in commited files -----

Note : the more constraints the more efficiency,
    hence most optimizations will be applied specificaly per geometry

--------------------------------------------------------------------

// ---------------------- NEXT ----------------------- //
- basic scene with floor/walls/ceil to test further light calculations and various optimizations from now on
- concave optimizations (the same way as for convex)
- reduce kernels (takes a texture or a buffer and after a recursive call, reduce to a single 
- point light buffer
- ambient occlusion
- direct occlusion (shadows)
--------------------------------------------------------------------

TO BE CONTINUED : continue to optimize other geometries : stabs & slashes with simplified sdf on far distances.

Time to extract functions from the main raymarching loop.
idea :
    extract each type of loop
    so that they can be reused in other loops as simplified sdf.
        especially SphereStepping & CapsuleStepping
    
idea : 
    Use CapsuleSDF for both those geometries (SphericCone & TriPrism) when "far" from the geometry,
    since it will most likely be overrided by a closer sdf calculus.
    Compute a simple SphereSDF for a Box_SDF in that same case.
do not bother maxing the efficiency of the capsule sdf for TriPrism, it is likely to be used only in depth not in height.

change the order in which calculations are done,
    sphere encapsulation coming first,
    
    compute sdf distance check with a sphere because it is very cheap and rotation independent,
        if inside 
            then approximate sdf distance check (eg. capsule sdf here),
            if inside 
                compute normal on that approximate sdf
        if outside compute distance with sphere sdf.


could it be useful to keep encapsulation test values for displacement ?
    - if using capsules to group geometries then it will be needed to know this displacement to encapsulate the right space.

TODO : after sphere encapsulation test : compute only a simplified sdf if not close enough.
        - how does this enhance, the current enhanced sphere tracing :
            - distant iterations and every iterations that comes at a fair distance of the geometry (but inside the encapsulation test)
                do use the whole sdf version, unsimplified, this new version excludes other pixels inside the encapsulation test with fair cost.
            - a problem is : for warps which threads take both branches, the sdf test is pretty much done twice in term of time computation,
            but this is still worth (at least for large geometries).
                it is only twice this geometry, fine since the only search does it at least 100 times.

A capsule SDF & SDFNormal use both around half of exact same computation, hence enhanced iteration for it is suuuuuper cheap.

commit

test replacing stab.tdr.x by rcp(stab.tdr.x) or inversely in the sdf_normal.
in order to give this as a precomputation in SquareSizeCenteredSphericCone.
For symmetry compared to SquareSizeCenteredTriPrism.

float SquareSizeCenteredSphericCone(Stab stab)
{
    float d = stab.tdr.y * 0.5 + min(stab.tdr.x * stab.tdr.y, stab.tdr.z);
    return d * d;
}
float3 OTSphericCone_SDFNormal(float3 transformedPosition, float3 tdr, float3 nCapsule, float invR)
{
    return (transformedPosition.y > min(rcp(tdr.x) * tdr.z, tdr.y))
       ? normalize(nCapsule)
       : normalize(float3(transformedPosition.x * invR, -tdr.x, transformedPosition.z * invR));
}

the result of the condition is certainly inversible.

commit

Rename SphericalCone (into CapsuleCone ?) and add a parameter to it to manage the sword width (kind of a x scaling).

Also use the same geometry for englobing TriPrism,
    - which may also need to be renamed.

Absolutely rename implicit geometries as their logic representation : slash & stab.
So that it isn't to be thought about each time using their implicit geometries names.

commit

give TriPrism a consistent normal through space, it made a visual issue with capsules where pixels
that should have collided with TriPrism collide with SphericCone(the capsule part of it) instead.
certainly because normals for TriPrism isn't optimal in a geometric angle way. 
(at some position in space, it will give back a normal that is far from the normal that should be in that space)
    note : transformedPosition.z = transformedPosition.z-depth*0.5
    allows to then use abs(transformedPosition.z) for symmetric computation.

after correcting this issue, set the stabs loop in the very end 
    then try putting stabs next to TriPrism, seed : stabs = 4956, slashes = 7685

commit

InterconnectedGpuResources :
    there should be no use for a variable storing each texturesHolder, bcs those are stored dynamically in the textureHolderList.
    moreover it makes it absolutely not flexible for instancing.

commit

count how many times a simplified geometry has been used instead of the complete one.
    separately of the iteration counting.
    more like "simplifiedGeometryCounts".
    instead of "iterationCounts".
another texture will be necessary anyways for further debug.

it is possible to use exclusively simplified geometries with constant boolean conditions in a debug view to see if those are correctely computed.
    With multiple "LOD"s for Sphere, then Capsule for 'previously SphericCone'.

commit

debug rendering mode : ordered grid X * X elements (X being the number of and sdfs to test)
    each line is shifted by 1 so that each of those sdfs are at least once beside each other sdfs.
    GeometryDebugger here influences every of those shifted geometries. (but should separate parameters from a sdf to another).

commit

Most iterations are wasted on stepping over spherical geometries.
    However we know exactly when that happens :
    - we have the kind of geometry being computed
    - known normal from the geometry to the point
    - geometry normal and distance
    -> either a post computation after calculating the enhanced plane sdf
    -> either bend the intersection plane the same way the geometry is bent
        as an approximation bend the plane with a simple squared distance as it is further away from the geometry ?

commit

CameraFov & distorsion near edges :
try using spheric lerping (slerp) instead of simple lerping (what is currently equivalently done),
    - and modify adapt how CameraFov is used so that it actually determine the camera angle.
    - moreover adapt how much mouseSensitivity there is in consideration of CameraFov.

with some math exponent, it can match statically a certain screen ratio between x and y
    bending rays direction a certain way, see image gallerie (phone). 17/01/2026

Allow multiple screen ratio for const exponents set for those ratio, further optimizations screen related,
    will be tested over those screen ratios exclusively.
(eg. HD720 1280x720, HD1080 1920x1080, 2K 2048x1080, WQHD 2560x1440).
enum int 2 x 4048
note : QHD has exactly 2 times WQHD resolution.

- just for debugging, also allow a square format, as it is more convenient for screen-resolution-independent optimizations.

TO NOTE :
To complete sides of an incomplete (non square) resolution, sides can be completed with visual effects.
for instance, indicating the player health status and mana status and nefast status (overheat, mana poison, mana lack ...).

or : since kernels will be called iteratively to render a given resolution;
    - it is possible to include an additional paquet at some point, and consider its size when projecting previous subdivisions.
    
commit

Update buffers linking with command buffer to only send buffers from CPU to GPU when those are updated.
Hold that boolean information in the BufferHolder.
Write it to false when linked by the customPipeline.
Write it to true when modified by the application (eg. ScenePopulating)
(does only improve passive scenes, does not help for dynamic scenes because when updated it delays the current frame by possibly a lot)
    - an optimization here would be to delay the buffer filling as a post frame operation,
        after blitting the current frame, the buffer is linked and next frame uses it.
        however for high framerate (120fps) this still causes stuttering.
        hence an async solution would be better, though it is not sure to know when datas are ready on GPU side.
        nor how many frames it will take to show geometries.
        Best remains to spawn geometries directly on GPU while limitating CPU-GPU communication, even if it puts little more strain on GPU.

do the same for constants and textures.
everything should only be linked when changed.

commit

// ------------------------------ NEXT ------------------------------- //

see how CustomPipeline class could be better.
It handles too much and will get hardly maintenable soon enough.
Make it a parent class also used for asynchronous physics calculation.

A CustomPipeline should be defined by its kernels management exclusively (managing a list of kernels and handling their modification for hot reloading).
Miscellaneous calculation like FPS calculation should be externally handled through indirect call (eg. events).
Building the pipeline should be handled by the class that implements a CustomPipeline because this is where custom behaviours are handled.

commit

idea : for now stabs & slashes are not coalescing GPU memory, hence their structs could instead store precomputation steps.
to handle stab & slash precomputations steps :
    - CPU transfers stabs & slashes buffers to GPU
    - GPU precomputes tangente for stab angle (and later in that same step adds the geometries to the search structure)
    - GPU uses all that precomputation to render the scene efficiently.
    : need for a kernel that precomputes those values.
    : later on, an other search structure could be used for very short living geometries such as particles.
        : eg. metal sparks after a shock.

    Spawning/Adding geometry should also be possible from GPU to GPU.
    Same for Despawning/Destroying geometry.
    This should be exclusively used on runtime, while CPU de/spawning should exclusively be used when loading a scene.

idea : precompute geometry size (not squared), so that sphere encapsulation test is 1 cycle long.
    moreover : implement a SoA layout instead of an AoS, for storing float4(geometry position, geometry size),
        so that even if geometry is not coalescing and not memory efficient when computing the whole sdf,
        the simplified sdfs will compensate for it largely, those will be the most used sdfs.

        if only storing radius, this only serve for sphere sdf for now.
        for capsule sdf (which is still a simplified sdf), all datas are needed because it is not rotation independent
            (which is why sphere sdf is so fast and far less needy for data).
        hence all other datas will be stored in a AoS layout 
            (because all those remaining datas for a same struct are needed (hence has to be)loaded at once).

some Physics could be handled by the CPU, at that point the CPU will be underused.
same 

commit

condition to doing that : gather all utilitary/miscellaneous functions other than sdf & sdf_normal into a single .cginc file.
    - eg. maxLength functions, planePosition functions, etc...

can be cool to get a debug view for various optimization, such as : 
    - sphere encapsulation test (to see how much it englobes geometries),
    - iteration count, seen with a heat gradient (HSV color) (to see where optimizations are necessary)
    - average empty space skipped, when the cone tracing optimization is implemented,
        this value will be averaged per subdivision considering the average skipped space 
        as the pixel occupancy multiplied by the actual skipped distance.

- take into account an ulterior change from angle encapsulation test, to 
- just add +1 each time a loop/condition is entered, store that value in a debugCountTexture per pixel.

commit

check stab & slash with sphere encapsulation test debug, especially slash.

- consider a slash as enclosed in a box, how efficient a box encapsulation test would be compared to a sphere encapsulation test ?
    it fits the slash shape far better than a sphere.
    bool inside = (abs(v.x) <= ex) && (abs(v.y) <= ey) && (abs(v.z) <= ez);
    - first verify if the point is inside the box, with a quite large treshold to avoid iterating uselessly empty skipping for the encapsulating box.
    - if not inside but in the angle(more correct than sphere) encapsulation test(calculated for that box), 
        then compute the actual sdf, but that of the box.

commit

- make a function extracting a structuredBuffer implicit geometry traversal and use it for each geometry type.
    - refine all 4 geometries with this function to make the code more coherent.

commit 

- to optimize further, and to test ellipsoid vs sphere performances :
    this is possible to make the sphere encapsulation test into an ellipsoid test
    (except for spheres obviously because those are already perfectly encapsulated by a sphere encapsulation test).
    This is what will be used later on anyways. It can be represented as 2x4 floats <= 2x sizeof(sphere) or computed on the fly.

commit

Explore :
    - is it possible to store a structuredBuffer of textures ?
        how can a lot of different textures be stored efficiently on GPU ? 
        eg. to precompute noise maps with a seed that will ulterly be shared through network.

commit

- separate loops for Union and Subtract
- do not forget to make the debug work for both

commit 

// ---------------------------------- NEXT ----------------------------------
concave optimizations : 

add geometry removal (global destructive geometry for now)
- add destructive geometry buffers management (normal should be negated after calculation when destructive geometry is the closest implicit surface)
- loop over destructive geometry and apply simple SDF_Subtract after computing SDF_Union (prefer it over min() for explicity) geometries 
- add concave optimizations (think about how could such optimizations be included in BSH search structure before implementing them)

commit

// ---------------------------------- NEXT ----------------------------------
lighting calculations : 

- Explore : optimize sphere tracing using lipchitz relaxation factors.
    In order to not have a very broke distance field for soft shadow calculation,
    But an approximated and efficient result of it.

extend customPipeline functionnality to support buffer reduce operations,
such as summing up light screen contributions from multiple lights, to apply an attenuation factor based on it.

- instead of creating a lot of kernel instance for a same kernel which should be called X times.
Do a kernel component which has an attribut of type Array for storing different parameters for 
    calling an iterative (eg. recursive) kernel.
- call a kernel with properties such as (nom, valeur initial, valeur itération suivante)
    The next value can be defined with a function.
- reduce (size to search in is divided/multiplied by 2)
- spatial screen subdivision (either divided/multiplied by 2 or 4 depending on needs)

commit

public static class LightBuffers
{
    public const string PointLight = nameof(PointLight);
}

(for later :)
- extract SDF switch case, especially for light bounce calculation afterward.
    - even if it has different optimizations, all sdf switch case and loops should be defined in sdf_... .cginc
        not sdf.cginc because sdf optimizations also uses SDFNormal

commit 

a basic anti-aliasing would be to blend pixels when neighbour pixels aren't of the same geometry.

simplify the use of Convolution, either do it a function or a kernel because it is an operation frequent to use.

- anti-aliasing : 
TAA blurs too much but is efficient.
- should be applied only on fast changing screen areas.
- MSAA which gives a netter look is achievable is considering : 
    - projecting pixels with half a pixel shift, which can be computed after the last subdivision of cone/frustum projection,
        subdividing a very last time.
    - those added samples can be interpolated to get a low res MSAA
- Should take into account the geometry curvature when stepping 
- Should not be applied near edges, in other words when a near pixel had a different geometry (id or type).
- A modern AA (such as TAA) should take into account discontinuities through time considering objects stillness or dynamism.
Still objects should not have high variation such as crawling, very visible when moving camera slowly for such slow objects.
- A valid change in intensity would be for dynamic illumination, especially when an object passes near a light at high speed,
    creating a blinking effect on near objects.

- Not catching a geometry on any pixel makes it totally ignored, not anti-aliased/blured with the result image.
    Which can cause it to crawl relentlessly.
    - biggest trouble for now.
    - since even the lastest subdivision of a cone/frustum projection includes the whole area of pixel, 
        it is possible to then compute a specific last version of projection that keeps track of close SDFs to blur them.


commit

add RaymarchingGpuResourcesNames.MainBuffers
    add PointLightBuffer

extend light calculation to a dynamic point light buffer
make a scenePopulating light setup

compute light calculation with an HDR buffer then divide by exposure in post process :
    - light point calculation
    - light halos
    - reduce kernel -> multiply overall by 1/exposure

implementation note :
    - point light { position, range, intensity, color} 2x4 floats = 32 bytes
    - GPU may precompute lights to combine close lights into a single light for computing light shadows & illumination
      while keeping not modifying original light halos.
    - it could be more "magical" that close lights tend to interpolate their own properties with closed lights.

commit

implement direct occlusion, hence also shadows.
re-casting a SDF iteration loop, but optimize for getting a very approximate result.
For the sake of continuity, a relaxation factor will be used instead of enhanced sphere tracing.

commit

implement ambient occlusion, same method as for light occlusion but sampling multiple directions around the normal.
do include only one light bounce occlusion.
do not store occlusion datas, instead compute a mathematical approximation on a whole geometry compared to the current position.
    That can include to compute a bounce on that geometry in various directions, then average the occlusion factor.
    for instance box may have up to 3 possible bounces depending on the number of faces visible.
    spheres have infinite bounces but can be approximated with a certain number of samples depending on distance.
or use a direct approximation for that geometry depending on light source direction and current position, hence not including indirect illumination on that geometry.

commit

NOTE ISSUE : most of previous optimizations cannot be used for non-convex geometries.
    see for concave optimizations before considering this "issue",
    there is possibly ways to combine both optimizations types to apply on every kind of geometries, 
    including those with noise(or texture, etc..) kind of displacement.
POSSIBLE CORRECTION : considering concave geometries as a convex geometry from the other side.
advance of the distance of the enclosing sphere is sure.
but on a sphere edge, a large distance is added uselessly.

When including strike, it should be obvious if it is necessary (or at least better) to combine both "geometry" & "strike"
to avoid, for instance, unnecessary conditions branchements.
However consider that most strikes are to be removed not added to the scene.

It may be good to not separate their geometryType in geometry and strike ?
commit

for math optimization, all functions should be tested separately, hence the above issue should be fixed first.

math optimizations & GPU optimizations on current calculations : no SFU bottleneck, avoid branching (branchement prediction
is limited on GPUs), approximation, limitate registers use, eventually use groupshared datas about collided geometries,
permit independant calculation to happen in the same time.
consider storing inverse distances too in some cases.

commit

IDEA : if textures are efficient to access nearest datas then it can be very efficient to store a search structure 


------------------------------
Analyze blinn-phong direct lighting, previously copy-pasted

extend calculation to light points then 

Implement indirect lighting :

Find a simple equation that approximate a relaxation factor for each geometries.
For instance : sphere may have such a relaxation factor as twice the distance for grasing angles (angle between the rayDirection and 
the lightDir larger than the sphere radius), it would give pretty much as good performances as enhanced SphereTracing but gives a proper
much more continuous distance to geometries. Which is necessary for implementing proper dynamic soft shadows.

Return in Result the iterationStepFootprint of light indirect calculations to determine which is to be optimize as for the main kernel footprint.
Also use the final intersecting geometry to determine part of the color of the pixel.
-----------------------------

Light Halos (some kind of "white noise" when looking at a light source directly),
it can be represented as a star or some design.

Implement some kind of light attenuation, enabling light intensity to surpass the 0,1 range, for effects like blinding, and more 
complex light compositions.

// ---------------------- STOP/NEXT ----------------------- //

- Organize the following optimizations in order of importance.

- only store on CPU, objects sphere encapsulation, not the actual datas,
    for it to be the fastest possible while providing some usefull empty space skipping.
    as a precomputation step of the rendering pipeline.

care for sphere encapsulation to not be too large when working with slashes (since its height is controlled by angle, not having a limit):

- Most physics should not be based on framerate.
hence later : instantiate a custom pipeline that is executed at FixedUpdate rate, not each frame.
    - make a common very customizable instance of CustomPipeline that permit both instances to work based on this same class.

Add and manage a curvature variable for slash geometry.
    - Direction + intensity (3+1 = Vector4)

CameraFov for now do only zoom-in/zoom-out however do not actually enlarge the field of view.
- maybe works with slerp or some kind of spherical rotation instead of casual displacement.
Moreover, mouseSensitivity should be proportionnal to it because mouse movement are calculated using angles
    hence a same rotation will be much larger compared to the total screen angle.

- CPU/GPU for geometry communication :
    GPU organize and sort those geometries and manage it internally, including its destruction.
    ADD / UPDATE / DELETE are actions the CPU may order the GPU to execute.

- Use inverse transformations the same way it for now uses inverse rotation to use the default geometry properties

- Do a simple post effect settup kernel and support it in the search structure in an efficient way.
To trigger a VFX system that manages particles spawning/update/removal.

----------------------------------------- research ----------------------------------------

- Is there a difference between storing datas in float + float3 compared to one float4 ? 
    If so, try to optimize how much registers are used by densing datas in float4 especially in main raymarching loops.

- What data to store in order to cache AABB separation axis ?

- Learn more about the various gpu memories. (shared, managed/unmanaged, etc ...)

- dot product == length squared, study its properties

// -------------------------------------- SORTED ----------------------------------------------

- Make a real little scene :
Combine GeometryDebugger and ScenePopulating, because ScenePopulating should not manage other than real scene geometry.
    - this is for now literaly debug geometries that are being displayed.
    - Add ScenePopulator : Manages which scene is to be loaded and CPU-GPU linking through ApplicationGpuResource.
    - Add GeometryLoader : loads a scene(or part of it) by converting a file into implicit geometries.
    - Add GeometryCreator : - TODO : a scene to create geometry that is then stored into files,
                                which can be loaded later on by a GeometryLoader.
                                A file can be stored in two versions : explicit (slow but readable) / implicit (fast but unintelligible)
- GeometryDebugger : enable (with a switch) to separate both scenePopulator and which geometry is debugged.

- Animation & destruction :
loose joint detection (when a joint is cut, eg. by destructive geometry),
    both for bones animation calculation, and to determine how destroyed a mesh is.

explore - sdf proposition - SDF functions will now return a 
    vector from the geometry toward the point (non-normalized normal) instead of the distance.

- see if it is possible to scale easily in x or y direction to make the slash sharper have approximately a sword shape
    (though the capsule borders would not be, this is a detail).

- Debug view : similarity by (pixel)proximity 
    (this could be a convolution pass appliable on all debug views, especially useful for "Iteration" views).

- Collision detection + Position,Velocity update
    - Cast through space, linear, and bended for bended motions, for that, velocity alone isn't enough anymore

- interactive spawn system, spawn/destroy on runtime with mouse & keyboard

- implicit remeshing of triangles meshes with a limited set of sdf volumes.
    - exporting meshes
    - loading meshes

- Sound simulation
    eg. Smth goes near an ear at high speed, it should generate sound depending on air friction.
    sound frequency should change depending on which material collides, and how much energy is dissipated.

------------------------------------- Volumetric rendering -------------------------------------

Volume_SDF : to implement a non-stepped version (not realy good knowing it delays all threads of a block)
or do an approximation of a stepped version with fewer pixels 1 for each 4*4 pixels, with a prepass then interpolated

Volumetry should possibly be rendered separately as a post processing effect.


VolumeSDF computation cannot just give back one id because multiple volumes can overlap, find a way to combine
multiple volumes, knowing there are certainly some volumes that push each other, some other that pull each other,
some blend homogenously or do not and stay heterogenous in the volume.
