----------------------------- further ideas ---------------------------------

- Are Volumes compatible with Cone projection culling ?

- optimizations based on screen contribution ?
eg.
replacing sdfs when contribution is little.
- a slash can be substitued to a box rotated by 45ｰ (cheap), fair approximation
- cylinder or elongated box for stabs
or replace with decals.

VFX particles & search structure :
    TODO after : for VFX particles, colors can be stored in a buffer and be read depending on a single float "t" parameter, to blend between colors depending on the particle type.
    public static class ParticlesBuffers
    {
        public const string Particles = nameof(Particles);
    }
    public static class StructuralBuffers
    {
        // each node stores an encapsulating ellipsoid (position, rotation, scale) // and as a precomputation step, a distance to the nearest empty space in the structure.
        // geometryType and ID are stored in each leaf of the structure and permit to access the actual geometry in geometry buffers, the first bit indicates if it is a leaf or a node.
        public const string BoundingEllipsoidHierarchy = nameof(BoundingEllipsoidHierarchy);
    }

----------------------- Explore ---------------------

- ray Reprojection for temporal coherence/optimization, considering a same pixel has very high chances to be in the screen once again.

-------------------------------- search structure --------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------
From here excellent distanceSDF convergence but expensive search O(N)
Loses a lot of performances for a lot of geometries, then use a search structure with O(log(N)) search time
(in a general way no more than 32 verifications in base 2, depending on how optimal is the search structure configuration)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A goal for a search structure here is to step little by little while not taking the whole scene into account, 
    only paquets of it.

- Get from github an implementation of a BVH
    - make sure that it has good performances on dynamic scenes.

- Debug : Show BVH bounding volumes.

- Problem to consider with sphere encapsulation :
    it can create differences in performance in a spheric patern on the screen, which is far from ideal for threadGroups
    dispatches in order to end in the same time.

- Scale of 2/p = 0.636 between a surface covered by a sphere and the same one covered by a square, for a same edge/radius.
    - Hence to cover a square of pixels, a cone would project 1/(2/p) = 1/0.636 = 46.34% more pixels than which are projected.
    - For first iterations that step for more pixels, this is more impactful than for later iterations where fast computation is 
        prioritized over efficient computation.

- In case the scene is very dense and does not fit entierely in the cache (which is very probable)
    then instead of loading again all the scene when subdividing again and again,
    - only load higher levels of the BVH nodes until a certain number of nodes max.
        do subdivide when the camera is included in those BVH subdivisions otherwise there won't be any stepping (empty space skipping).

Explore : Spheric vs Cylindric vs Elliptic volumes for the following search structure.
    It should be ellipsoid volume, the most versatile, especially for elongated geometries like box.
    
UPDATE : do use approximated ellipsoid volume instead of sphere volume
    ADVANTAGES : much more precise elongated volumes, later can be parameterized in multiple ways, can be scaled freely...
    EQUATION : averaged distance of two points, minus half the distance between those points.

- BSH construction :
    no need for optimal construction, especially for small geometries.
    - eg. combine with the closest relevant geometry
    if this geometry is already occupied,
        either search another to combine with
        either combine with it considering a higher level encapsulation
        when adding geometry, consider this previous statement, there may be 
            near geometries combining alone with a higher level encapsulation

- do only compute the actual sdf when close enough from the enclosing sphere
    otherwise only compute a sphere distance
    condition : some constant multiplied by the enclosing sphere radius.
    computation : distance check only enclosing sphere, not the actual sdf.

- BSH traversal :
    - Check recursively if an encapsulation volume is the closest.
        1st idea - when subdividing, if the encapsulation volume is now the second closest 
            then subdivide the other encapsulation volume that is now the closest.
        2nd idea - compute the current subdivision sdf for the encapsulation volume 
            if it skips "enough" empty space to be pertinent. then when the volume is close "enough",
                subdivide further and continue.
            - even with encapsulating volume, it is certainly possible to use enhanced sphere tracing.

search structure :
CPU preprocessing then GPU preprocessing before raymarching for every pixels :
goal : reduce the most the number of latent threads due to iterations differences
how : detailed in GIMP (raymarching optimization) => recursive screen subdivision

1 - Recursive frustum culling on CPU side 
    (necessitate to also store a search structure on CPU side, which can be very costly in RAM memory)
    ( otherwise do a very approximated implementation with heuristics instead, to save memory )
    subdivide the screen in 32 parts for that step, send those 32 distances to the GPU.
2 - then Recursive cone (or frustum) culling on GPU side

main preprocessing idea :
0 - make a geometry that englobes all pixels position of this subdivision in the scene
        (if it englobes all 4 extremes of that subdivision then it englobes all pixels).
1 - if does collide with the scene immediatly then subdivide otherwise project this geometry in the scene
        to calculate its SDF.
2 - step ahead bounds of the subdivision and iterate

last pass :
0 - compute raymarching on 1 ray on the middle of each paquet of pixels 4x4 or 8x8 (for higher resolution).
1 - take information from that ray to facilitate the paquet processing,
     eg. which volumes are traversed, which geometry is hit.
     to prevent edges blocks to have a conditionnal access to neighbours, an additional ray will approximate
     an evaluation out of the frustum bound in each direction, the 2D array will be a little larger,
     and indexes for the stage 2 will be added 1 in x and y in order to compensate larger bounds.
2 - evaluate each pixels paquet considering no other geometry than hit geometry(a little extreme) by neighbour paquet 
    evaluation (groupshared). the main objective here isn't to get realistic result but the fewer steps difference in 
    threads of a same block. so that the block is liberated faster.

- While evaluating, manage an ID toward the current BSH subdivision, to start back to that subdivision instead of searching again
that position (which would certainly nullify part of that optimization).

BSH : Temporal adaptative sphere radius :
    sphere radius chosen depending on particle speed(velocity)(for slow speeds only, because enclosing sphere would bcome too big otherwise),
    size, deformation and screen & scene contributions to be updated the least time possible while conserving efficient culling,
    it can enclose eg. ~10 frames of movement, in order to not be updated every frames.

Temporal consistency :
    From a frame to the next one, most of the time, there are a lot of similar elements.
    Camera position does not move more than velocity (which is usually not very large because of player disorientation problems).
    Camera rotation can be set a limit with smoothing, without cancelling the rotation but smoothing it across frames.
        ( this could be a pain for high sensitivity players)
    Camera FOV does not vary more than what Camera physics does.

Spatial consistency :
    recast considering the next geometry is approximately the same as for now.
    hence search in a way that is optimized in this context.

+ always a second static sphere enclosing test that is independant from the search structure in order to cull a lot more pixels since the updated sphere
can be much larger than the actual geometry when this geometry is moving fast, due to previous optimization.


- Decals & search structure :
    Tiny degradations can be stored as a decal, with a Boundary Surface Hierarchy search structure to determine which decals intersect 
    with each other.
    As so, those won't be part of the sphere tracing search, but after it hits a surface, it will be part of the texturing process.

VFX & search structure :
    It is possible to make large geometries store inverse distance while keeping low memory struct on tiny geometries,
    separating both geometries. beware divergence or store inverse distance for every geometries, considering 
    those geometries are in moderate number for large solid geometries.
    A specific kernel can be implemented for particles, using different techniques considering only tinier & very dynamic geometries.
    It would write a pixel depending on the distance read from evaluation rays and weither or not a VFX particle is closer than said geometry.
    evaluation rays above 2x2 for particles are unnecessary because particles are in general tiny, so filling in between rays will not come out great and
    those may cause artifacts or particles not appearing.
    Mostly static part of the scene can be computed apart too (unanimated scene,
    still dynamic because handles movement and deformations but most does not most of the time)

    In opposition, are 2x2 evaluation rays realy usefull for larger geometries ?
    4x4 evaluation rays are certainly much better.
    normal interpolation will apply correctly on spheres, but box will not be interpolated but conditionned to same normals, test with 4x4 evaluation rays first.

----- refine/resume those early dev ideas -----

Combining paquets of pixels :
Get threads to be grouped by their divergence in order to limit computation time overhead due to divergence
(edges of geometries causes divergence because rays in a same group either hit the geometry either search further in the search structure,
this second case actually also delays the first case due to GPU threads not handling divergence efficiently).
Search structure divergence => Smaller thread group size (less rays impacted by divergence).
Evaluation rays are evaluated to determine a displacement stored for each thread group, whose starts computing at this specific index.
A buffer of the size of the screen divided by 2 (in each dimension), can easily store those displacements.
If it causes the computation to be memory limited then abort or change this method.
If neighbours evaluation rays hit the same geometry then it can be considered that the group size at least includes every pixels between them,
hence 2x2 pixels.
Extending this reasoning to 4x4 evaluation rays, it would not be needed to evaluate further because divergence would be almost zero anyways,
8x8 and 16x16 paquet size are also to be considered.
With this method it would not even be necessary to evaluate further than the current evaluation ray if all nearby evaluation rays hit the same
convex/concave geometry.
Hence all evaluation rays should write to the same buffer, then pixels thread would read only from that buffer, informations about hit geometry.

NOTE : it possible to dispatch thousands of compute shaders each frame, there could be a way to implement the previous optimization dispatching 
at most log(n)ｲ times.
For example, depending on the screen resolution, there could be more divergence for lower resolution (because rays are then more separate),
hence using smaller group size. Oppositely to higher resolution which have less resolution, it can be usefull to vary group size depending on that fact.
If using displacement with an approximated number of threads groups then there will be some left threads with no work to do.
(however those will end at the same time with a single verification, hence not much of an overhead)
It could be a great optimization to call dispaches according to loaded memory.
    eg. if only 64x64 pixels can load their datas in the L1 cache then calling those 64x64 pixels in the same time
    (calling each thread group size according to the current optimization), then memory access would still be coalesced.
    how much datas can be loaded in a SM : 48 KB, 64 KB or 96 KB
    respectively divided per 32x32 : datas per pixel : 48B, 64B, 96B
    reference : float => 32 bits => 4B : hence nb of floats : 12, 21, 32
    for a 64x64 (divide per 4): nb of floats : 2, 5, 8
    Minimum nb of floats storable : 32x32 => 12, 64x64 => 2
    2 floats : distance & search structure id ?
    those are shared among at least 2x2 pixels, hence 1 {float id} redirects toward a shared data {distance, ss id}
    hence : 2x2 * 2 = 8 versus 2x2 * 1 + 2 = 6
    though it necessitates one more memory redirection, it is still coalescing.
    in fact 1 more uint, to store displacement of the pixels paquet.
    one last available ... either a safety check or usefull datas.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Best optimizations after relaxation factors will be :
    1 - search structure distance based (creation, update, deletion, search)
    2 - recursive screen subdivision preprocessing (need for a more complex test setup)
        (CPU frustum (2 iter. => 16) - GPU distance)
    3 - using their respective subdivision preprocessed safe empty distance,
        ray evaluation per pixel paquets to determine hit geometries per group of pixels,
        remember closest convex geometries over iterations in iteration order (what iteration they were encountered)
        (a modified version of sphere tracing that does not just step from the closest distance, but considers the minimum
        distance that englobe the whole pixel-paquet-frustum depending on distance; because this is not only about one ray,
        but preprocessing the whole pixel-paquet-frustum)
        (the strategy can change depending on distance since the geometry becomes larger and larger,
        however since the pixel paquets should be small, the frustum size should stay moderate)
        (GPU)
    4 - iterate over all pixels using their respective ray evaluation

for alonged boxes : use other approximation methods, multiple spheres ?, cylinder ?...
at least the sphere encapsulation test becomes more and more meaningless when a box's axe(s) is exagerated compared to the others.
however most other geometries also include rotation, even a second sphere test would be less consuming.
however, AABB box can serve as an encapsulation test for an OBB box.

Btw, are encapsulation test realy meaningfull ?
=> if the geometry is close no : just iterate closer, it will fastly converge/diverge
=> if the geometry is far : it would possibly englobe much more geometries to search for farther geometry.
=> if few geometries are close and a lot are distant :
    then excluding the closest geometry fastly can permit to step much longer distance.
=> evenly parsed geometries : may lead to a lot of useless tests if the context is computed as the above context.

=> realy usefull situation : direct collision test with spheres
    eg. CPU preprocessing or GPU evaluation rays : 
    eg2. recursive sphere encapsulation. 
=> every approximated test : especially when rotations are quite consuming, better exclude most obvious ones.
    if the search structure isn't efficient enough.
=> primitive fast collision approximation :
    => if positive then test more precisely
    => if negative then either skip the geometry either advance to the largest safe distance.
    eg. 1-find all(just some when distances alone can't tell which is collided) closest possible triangles
        2-fast sphere collision approximation : 
        => if positive then later accept
        => if negative then skip
        3-if there is only one accepted triangle then the safe distance is the distance to the farthest vertice
          otherwise there is multiple accepted triangle then 

Could be replaced with simple recursive sphere (approximated)distance check.


after doing a ray evaluation pass for 1 per 16x16 pixels, do a 1 per 4x4 pixels then 1 per 2x2 pixels, each using the previous iteration to speed up sphere tracing.
Anyways the algorithm has to be computed hundreds of times even with all threads occpied.
Hence the sequential part of the algorithm isn't the problem.
Computation can still be optimized by preprocessing datas in a sequential way.
16x16 pixels : which geometry is hit by the pixel group (not only the point)
4x4 pixels : either per point or per pixel group sphere tracing (yet to be defined)
2x2 pixels : per point, one ray for 4 pixels. ~x4 speed up.
                principle : consider every geometry less than 2 pixels as unnecessary, hence all pixels between two 2x2 evaluation ray are hitting the same geometry
                (linear interpolation using the 2x2 evaluation ray datas (normal, UV & others), texture still have to be read after UV interpolation).
                (if hit a spherical surface then eventually use some kind of quadratic interpolation).
                a 2x2 ray evaluation either consider all 8 neighbours, or the ray is a corner pixel and only consider 3 neighbours to interpolate the 3 other pixels.
                this approximation (interpolation) should only be a high resolution screen optimization.
                I think this is the kind of the optimization tesselation algorithms does by consider pixels paquets 2x2.